KERMIT 95 2.0/2.1 BUG LIST ADDITIONS AND UPDATES

  Most recent update: Sun Nov 28 15:54:26 2010

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs, Workarounds, Hints and Tips discovered since K95 2.0 was released.
All software has bugs; we document ours as soon as we learn of them, and 
offer workarounds when possible.  Visit this page from time to time for 
news or if you think you've discovered a bug; maybe it's already discussed 
here.  Send questions or bug reports to:

  kermit-support@columbia.edu

This file is a continuation of the chronological Kermit 95 bug list:

  http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95bugs.html

Perhaps with some overlap (at this writing k95bugs.html ends at number 711).

The current shrinkwrapped version of Kermit 95 is 2.1.2; thus any bug
fixes listed here for K95 2.1.3 can be obtained by downloading
the 2.1.3 upgrade available from:

  http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95upgrade.html

All bug fixes listed for 2.1.2 or earlier are already incorporated into
the shrinkwrapped version.

Bug fixes listed as being fixed for the next release are not yet available.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

663.  Spurious K95G screen clearing on startup

If you launch a K95G connection from the Dialer, and the Dialer entry changes
the terminal dimensions, and then if you move the K95G window (and only the
first time you move it), the Terminal screen is cleared (but not lost; the
cleared material is still available in the scrollback buffer).  Seems to be
fixed in version 2.1.3.

664.  Everson Mono Terminal Font Side Effects

It is conceivable that the presence of Everson Mono Terminal on your PC might
affect other applications, such as Netscape, that search for appropriate fonts
to display text in various scripts.  In such cases, if the result is
undesirable, you might need to reconfigure the affected applications, or
uninstall Everson Mono Terminal (in the Windows Control-Panel Fonts dialog).

665.  Dimensions popup inactive during resize

(Not a bug) If you disable screen updates while moving windows (e.g. in
Windows XP Desktop -> Properties -> Appearrance -> Show window
contents while dragging), then in K95G when Actions -> Resize Mode
-> Changes Dimensions is selected the popup that shows the changing
dimensions is not updated, and with Actions -> Resize Mode ->
Scales Font, you can't watch the font change size.

666.  Possible Help -> Manual misbehavior

K95G and the Dialer have Help -> Manual dialogs, which bring up the Kermit
95 manual in your Web browser.  This works fine for most users, but several
users have reported various failures or problems with interaction between K95
or the Dialer and browser; these have to do with the particular browser and
version, the particular OS and version, and K95's SET BROWSER value, if any.
K95G and the Dialer are using totally standard APIs for invoking the browser.
In a pinch you can refer to the manual directly using something like:

  file:///C:/Program%20Files/Kermit%2095%202.0/docs/manual/kermit95.htm

667.  Underline and Blink control

In K95G 2.0, SET TERMINAL ATTRIBUTES UNDERLINE OFF does not disable
underlining; SET TERMINAL ATTTRIBUTE BLINKING OFF does not disable blinking.
Fixed in 2.0.1.  In K95 2.1.3 you can also create a nonblinking cursor with
SET TERMINAL CURSOR <i>style</i> NOBLINK.

668.  Host-Initiated Resize vs Font Scaling

In K95G 2.0, when the Window is maximized and K95's Resize Mode is "Scales
Font", if the host changes the line width, the font did not resize properly.
Mostly fixed in 2.0.1.  Should be completely fixed in 2.1.3.

669.  SET GUI WINDOW RESIZE-MODE command missing

There was no SET GUI WINDOW RESIZE-MODE command in K95G 2.0 to match the
Actions -> Resize Mode menu item.  Fixed in 2.0.1.

670.  Trouble with COM ports

COM-port connections (but not TAPI ones) could become disconnected upon
escaping back to the Command screen and then re-entering the terminal screen.
Fixed in 2.0.1.

671.  Toolbar always visible

K95G 2.0 has no method of disabling the functionality of the Tool bar or Menu
bar.  Version 2.1 has a new command SET GUI TOOLBAR OFF, which disables parts
of the toolbar (but does not make it invisible).  Similarly for MENUBAR.
Version 2.1.3 adds command-line options to remove the Menu and Tool bars.

672.  Upgrade Registration Problem

Copying the registration info from your old K95 version to 2.0 could fail
if your old registration did not include a company name.  Fixed in 2.0.1.

673.  SRP authentication attempted when not configured on incoming connections

This is a bug that affects 1.1.21 through 2.0.1.  It is fixed in version 2.1.
The way to avoid it is to specify a SET TELNET AUTH TYPE
command that does not include SRP.  This command would be placed in 
either the IKSD.KSC (for Internet Kermit Service) or K95CUSTOM.INI
or K95SITE.INI depending on how K95 is being used to accept incoming
connections.

674.  Extended argument error

When starting K95G from a Dialer entry that was cloned from a template, K95G
can fail, reporting an "Extended argument error".  Diagnosis: Templates have
Lucida Console hard-coded as the default font, but Lucida Console is not
necessarily installed on every Windows computer.  To compound the problem,
K95G fails to start if given an invalid font in the --facename: command-line
option.  Fixed in version 2.1.  Workaround: Install Lucida Console; you
can download it from http://www.microsoft.com/truetype/fontpack/.  And/or
change the font on the GUI page of the template (and any entries cloned from
it) to be a monospace font that you have, such as Courier New.

675.  Non-English Directory Names

Windows directories such as C:\Documents and Settings\xxx\Application Data\
can have different names in different countries, e.g. in Germany:

  C:\Dokumente und Einstellungen\xxx\Anwendungsdaten\Kermit 95\

For the most part, K95 handles these correctly, but different behavior
(or misbehavior) can occur on different Windows versions; for example,
the Dialer, on first use, might create:

  C:\Dokumente und Einstellungen\xxx\Application Data\Kermit 95\

which confuses the definition of Kermit variables such as \v(appdata) and
\v(common), which in turn can interfere with proper location of K95's
initialization and customization files.  Windows 2000 and XP should be OK;
Windows 9x/ME with IE 5.01 or later should be OK; others might have this
problem, which we will attempt to address in a future release.

676.  SSH-AGENT.EXE Broken

Apparently this was never tested and nobody noticed until after K95 2.0
was released.  The problems also involve K95's interface to SSH-AGENT.
Fixed in version 2.1.

677.  Default RGB color values in Dialer off by one

The default RGB values on the Dialer's GUI page should use 128 instead of
127 as the binary value.  Fixed in 2.1.

678.  Bulk License update loses number of seats

After applying the K95 2.0 upgrade installation to a Bulk Right-to-Copy
license, the number of seats displayed in the registration screen goes from
whatever it was (e.g. 100) to 1.  This was a bug in the original upgrade
installer.  It is fixed as of 12 June 2002 16:30:00 Eastern USA time.  If your
upgrade was affected by this bug: first make sure your old K95 version is
still on the disk (reinstall from CD if necessary), then use Add/Remove
Programs to remove "Kermit 95 2.0", then download a new copy of the upgrade
from http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95upgrade.html and apply it.

679.  SSH connections refused

If you get "connection refused", it probably means you are attempting a
connection to a server that does not support compression, yet Kermit is
configured by default to require compression.  Try SET SSH COMPRESSION
OFF or, equivalently, uncheck Data Compression on the Dialer entry's SSH
Settings page.

680.  TLS CBC Cipher incompatibility with IBM Info Exchange

Between the release of Kermit 95 1.1.21 and Kermit 95 2.0 a vulnerability was
discovered in the SSL/TLS Cipher Suite being used by IBM.  IBM is using 56-bit
DES in Cipher Block Check mode.  This cipher is weak and because of a recent
discovery the CBC mode has been shown to data leakage.  The contents of the
data stream can be read by a passive attacker.  This vulnerability can be
avoided if the SSL/TLS implementation forces the transmission of an empty
SSL/TLS frame (one that contains no application data.)

Kermit 95 uses the OpenSSL open source library as our implementation
of SSL/TLS.  Between 1.1.21 and 2.0 newer releases of OpenSSL became
available.  The fix to avoid the vulnerability was incorporated into
Kermit 95 2.0 when we updated to the newer OpenSSL library.

As it turns out, the IBM server violates the SSL/TLS protocol
specification by failing to properly handle empty frames. 
A workaround is to use a non-CBC mode cipher until IBM is able to
update their server:

  SET AUTH TLS CIPHER-LIST EXP1024-RC4-SHA

681. SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL doesn't completely work

To force a particular file-transfer mode (text or binary) globally for
all transfers, you are supposed to use SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL to
disable automatic per-file text/binary mode switching and then choose the
disired mode with SET FILE TYPE (Kermit) or SET FTP TYPE (FTP).  This is
not quite sufficient, however.  To finish the job, also SET FILE SCAN OFF.
The bug is that SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL is supposed to imply SET FILE
SCAN OFF.  Fixed in version 2.1.

682. COPY command destination file can have junk at end

If the destination of a COPY command is an existing file and the source file
is shorter than the destination file, the source file overlays the
destination file without truncating the excess.  Fixed in 2.1.  Workaround:
delete the destination file first.

683. Secure FTP authorization failure error message missing

FTP authorization failures were not being reported to the user (even though
the FTP OPEN command failed properly).  Fixed in version 2.1.  Workaround: SET
FTP DEBUG ON to see the protocol-level messages.

684. Fencepost error in FTP MGET /UPDATE

In FTP MGET /UPDATE, equal times spuriously caused download.  Fixed in 2.1.

685. In FTP MGET /RECOVER failures

In FTP MGET /RECOVER, recovery was skipped if the local file is newer than the
remote.  This would seem to make sense, but when a download is interrupted,
the partial file never gets the date of the remote file, so the partial file
is always newer, and recovery never works.  Of course this is also true when
the partial file was downloaded by any program that does not reproduce the
server's file date.  Fixed in version 2.1 by ignoring file dates in recovery
operations, and also by setting the file date for a partially received file.

686. Redundant downloads in FTP MGET /RECOVER wildcard wildcard...

The first file in each wildcard group would always be downloaded.  Fixed
in 2.1.

687. Missing message for FTP MGET /EXCEPT

When TRANSFER DISPLAY is set to BRIEF, files skipped due to exception-list
pattern match are reported as "ERROR" with no reason.  The operation works,
but the message is misleading.  Fixed in 2.1.

688. Automatic Locus switching fails when FTP connection drops

If an FTP transfer was in progress with automatic locus switching enabled
but the FTP connection drops, the locus does not change back; thus (for
example) a subsequent DELETE command makes Kermit send a REMOTE DELETE
packet on stdout rather than delete a local file.  Fixed in 2.1.

689. FILE INCOMPLETE setting ignored by FTP module

The FTP module never handled SET FILE INCOMPLETE.  Fixed in 2.1.

690. FTP MGET sends superfluous commands to server

When an FTP MGET command has selection clauses that would exclude a file
based on its name (e.g. /COLLISION:DISCARD, /EXCEPT:pattern), it sent
SIZE and/or MDTIM commands to the server for files that would have been
skipped even without this information, which could slow a multifile download
unnecessarily.  Fixed in 2.1.

691. FTP MGET pattern1 pattern2 pattern3 could stop prematurely

If a list of patterns is given to FTP MGET and any of the patterns matched
no files, the download would stop at that point, rather than proceeding to
the next pattern.  Fixed in 2.1.

692. Interrupting FTP operations with Ctrl-C is problematic

It's a hard problem.  To be addressed in a future release.

693. Terminal screen might have fewer columns than desired

If you choose a font and size that would make the Kermit window wider than
the screen at the chosen number of columns, Kermit creates the window with
the maximum number of columns that fit across the screen; for example, 78
instead of 80.  Workaround: choose a smaller font size.  This should be much
improved in version 2.1, and totally fixed in 2.1.3.

694. /POPUP switches in GUI version work improperly

When a /POPUP switch is used in the GUI with commands such as ASK the
generated popup is missing the frame and is displayed with a random
color instead of the HELP color.  Workaround: Use SET GUI DIALOGS OFF
or use the /GUI switch instead of /POPUP.  Fixed in 2.1.

695. Changing GUI Resize-Mode behavior while maximized

If the resize-mode is altered while the window is maximized, the
condition of the window when restored is undesireable.  Fixed in 2.1.3.

696. SET COMMAND CURSOR-POSITION

The SET COMMAND CURSOR-POSITION command does not work.  Fixed in 2.1.

697. SSH disables password-based logins upon key change detection

When an SSH Key Change is detected, the password based logins are
disabled in order to prevent theft of user passwords.  However, this
state is not restored for subsequent connection attempts and password
based logins cannot be performed until K95 is restarted.  Fixed in 2.1.

698. Scroll-mode exiting not always possible using the GUI scrollbar

Workaround: use the End key.  Fixed in 2.1.

699. FTP PUT text-mode character-set translation broken

Character-set translation during FTP PUT operations is broken in 2.0, with
no workaround.  TEXT transfers without character set translation work fine.
Fixed in 2.1.

700. SET TERMINAL IDLE-TIMEOUT does not stick in some circumstances

The TELNET, SSH, and SET HOST /CONNECT operations when executed after a SET
TERMINAL IDLE-TIMEOUT command will configure kermit in a manner such that
after exiting CONNECT mode, the IDLE-TIMEOUT value would be reset.  This does
not happen if SET HOST ... is followed by CONNECT instead of using one of the
combined commands.  Fixed in 2.1.

701. Unable to write to various Windows directories from K95

This is not a bug.  K95 checks the READ-ONLY attribute of Directory
entries.  If a directory is marked read-only, it will not be writable.
The default attribute values for each user's 

  Application Data
  Favorites
  My Documents
  Recent
  SentTo
  Start Menu

directories have the "Read-only" attribute set.  This is set by the 
Windows Shell to indicate that these directories are "special".
K95 2.1 has been modified to ignore the read-only flag when set on
directories.

702. Everson Mono Terminal font misbehavior on Win9x/ME

In earlier versions of Windows, the Everson Mono Terminal font might
look like chicken scratches and sometimes shows a strange horizontal
compression, to the extent that a regular 80-column x 24-row terminal
screen is taller than it is wide.  It behaves (and looks) much better on
Windows 2000 and XP (it can also be used successfully on earlier Windows
versions that have such enhancements as Font Smoothing or Clear Type
installed).  Even then, however, it has some drawbacks: the vertical
spacing is greater than most other monospace fonts, allowing fewer lines
per screen at a given size; the rendering is a bit light; and line- and
box-drawing characters tend not to line up right.  It looks better in
certain color combinations, such as black on white.  We hope that this font
will improve over time.  Despite its drawbacks, we include it with K95 to
allow access to scripts and languages you would not otherwise be able to
see in a terminal session: Georgian, Armenian, Katakana, Cherokee, Coptic,
Runes, Ogham, etc, because these characters are not included in widely
available monospace fonts like Courier New and Lucida Console.  If you
don't need these characters, you might prefer to use a different font.
Beginning in K95 2.1, the default Installer behavior is not to install it.

703. FTP MGET might fail immediately with invalid tempfile name

This bug was new to K95 2.1.0.  Temporary filenames for FTP were being
constructed within a buffer that could be too small.  Fixed in 2.1.1.

704. FTP MGET fails when directory segments contain wildcards

For example, "ftp mget */data/*.dat".  New to 2.1.0; fixed in 2.1.1.

705. Kerberos Leash shows garbage for local domain

Leash32 Options -> Kerberos Properties -> Your Computer's Domain
shows random garbage; this is a known bug in MIT Leash32 2.2.0.
Fixed the version of Leash that is included with K95 2.1.2.

706. K95 can't download files named CON or CON.anything

This is a DOS and Windows feature.  The same is true for any file whose
name (the part before the dot, if any) corresponds to a DOS device name
like CON, LPT, PRN, or COM1.  It's not a Kermit problem.  You can't create
a file on disk with such a name using any other Windows application either.

707. TELNET Com Port Control vs the INPUT command

Numerous problem with the TELNET CPC option and the INPUT command have been
resolved in K95 2.1.2.  The INPUT command would improperly close the network
connection to the host if the Carrier Detect (CD) signal was not raised; even
if Kermit's CARRIER WATCH setting was OFF.  The network connection should not
be closed simply because there is no carrier signal.

708. VTNT connections vs Ctrl-C

Reportedly the VTNT server absorbs Ctrl-C characters.  Kermit 95 sends them,
but they have no effect at the remote session.  If the report is true, this
would be a problem with the remote server, not with Kermit 95.

709. Mouse print selection broken in GUI

Button 1 Ctrl-Shift-Drag (default assignment) is supposed to select screen
text and send it to the printer.  This doesn't work in K95 2.1; it either
prints the whole screen or nothing at all.  Diagnosis: a race condition
between threads; The thread that is being spun off to perform the print job is
not starting before mark mode is terminated.  Workaround: Select/Copy the
text, then paste into WordPad or something, then print it.  An all-in-K95
workaround would be define a macro that writes the contents of the \v(select)
variable to a file, then prints the file, then deletes the file.  The macro
could be assigned to a mouse event of your choice with the SET MOUSE
command.  Fixed in 2.1.3.

710. K95 does not support remote SSH agent proxies

This feature is added in K95 2.1.3.

711. Maximize and Restore versus Resize Mode

(Not a bug) In the GUI version of K95, when the Resize Mode is Change
Dimensions and you maximize the window and then restore it, you get a blank
screen.  Whenever a window's height is reduced, the entire contents of the
window are placed into the scrollback buffer to ensure that the data will not
be overwritten or become garbage.  This behavior has never changed, but might
be more obvious now that the Maximize and Restore controls work.

712. FTP Brief-format transaction log shows wrong status 

If a transfer failed, the log entry said OK; if the transfer succeeded the
entry said FAILED.  Fixed in 2.1.3.

713. FTP connections always complain about 'FEAT' command

Kermit sends a FEAT command to see what features the server supports.
However, the FEAT command itself is a relatively new addition to FTP protocol,
so most servers don't understand it and and reply with an error message such
as "'FEAT': Command not understood", which Kermit displays.  K95 2.1.3
suppresses this error message unless FTP DEBUG is ON.

714. Problems with FTP [M]GET /RECURSIVE

FTP GET /RECURSIVE somepath/somefile didn't work and
MGET /RECURSIVE */somedir/* downloaded the files into the current directory,
rather than re-creating the remote directory structure.  Fixed in K95 2.1.3.

715. FTP USER and similar commands don't strip quotes

In most contexts there is no way to specify an FTP username that contains one
or more spaces.  Normally this would be done by enclosing the name in
doublequotes or braces, but the parsing code in this did not strip the
enclosing quotes or braces before sending the username to the server.  Ditto
for password and account.  To be fixed in the next release.  Workaround:
assign the multiword values to variables and use the variables.  Example:

  assign \%u Fred Foo
  assign \%p Secret Password
  ftp user \%u \%p

716. FTP MPUT requires all filespecs to match at least one file

The command "ftp mput *.jpg *.gif *.bmp" gets a parse error and does not
execute if any of the file specifications do not match any files.  This is
fine for interactive sessions, but not good for scripts.  For scripts
use something like:

  ftp mput *.jpg
  ftp mput *.gif
  ftp mput *.tif

or:

  ftp mput *.{jpg,gif,tif}

or:

  ftp mput "{*.jpg,*.gif,*.tif}"

Type HELP WILDCARDS for more information about the syntax.  Fixed in 2.1.3,
which allows FTP MPUT commands to contain filenames or patterns that do not
match any files, and the command will simply skip over them and still transfer
any files that do match, and will fail only if no files match at all, or if
any of the transfers fail.

717. GREP (FIND) does not allow pattern variables

The GREP (FIND, SEARCH) command does not expand pattern variables; it takes
the pattern literally.  To be fixed in the next release.  Workaround:

  define mygrep {
      local xx
      assign xx {
	  find \%1 \%2
	  if fail end 1
      }
      do xx
      if fail end 1
  }

and then use MGREP instead of GREP.

718. Dialer GUI Menu/Tool/Status Bar settings don't stick

Any changes to the Menu Bar, Tool Bar, or Status Bar check boxes
in the Dialer's GUI Settings page are not saved when you exit from the
Dialer.

Workaround: After checking or unchecking the GUI-page boxes as desired,
click OK on the GUI page, then click Shortcut on the Dialer's Toolbar, then
launch the connection from the shortcut rather than from the Dialer entry.

This is fixed in the next release.

719. The K95 command parser does not handle the NUL device

Using NUL (or NUL: or NUL.anything) in a Kermit command in place of a
filename does not always the expected effect.  Instead, the command tends
to fail with "?file not found".

This is fixed in the next release.

720. INPUT n \fpattern(xxx) doesn't work for case-independent matches

Fixed in the next release.

721. MINPUT n ... \fpattern(xxx) ... doesn't work at all.

The MINPUT command does not handle patterns.  Fixed in the next release.

722. Associative array references not case sensitive

Fixed in the next release.

723. SET KEY xxx \27H erroneously lowercases the value

Any SET KEY command in which the first character of the definition was
backslash quantity, and the ONLY character after the backslash quantity
was an uppercase letter, e.g. "set key \1234 \27H", would erroneously
lowercase the letter.  Fixed in the next release.

724. Failing FTP CD/CDUP/RMDIR does not set failure status

FTP CD, FTP CDUP, and FTP RMDIR did not set the failure status when they
failed, thus IF FAILURE or IF SUCCESS tests after these commands did not
work when they failed.  Fixed in the next release.

725. The RENAME command sometimes fails without printing an error message

Fixed in the next release.

726. ENABLE/DISABLE QUERY broken

ENABLE QUERY or DISABLE QUERY always give a parse error.  Fixed in the 
next release.

727. CD command with wildcard broken

For example, "cd a*" when only only directory name begins with "a".
Fixed in the next release.

728. DIRECTORY command with multiple filespecs can list too many files

Example: "directory a b c" lists all files whose names END WITH a, b,
or c, rather than the files whose names ARE a, b, or c.  Fixed in the next
release.

729. Display of Plane-1-and-beyond Unicode characters

At present, Kermit 95 can not display Unicode characters beyond Plane
0, i.e. whose code values have more than 16 significant bits.
Examples include Gothic, Old Italic, and Vietnamese Nom.  This
limitation is due to the lack of support in the Windows operating
system for glyphs beyond Plane 0.

730. k95g.exe ssh://xyzcorp.com --nobars causes invalid memory reference

Fixed in the next release.

731. Long Read Delays when using USB Serial Ports or Modems

K95's device ReadIntervalTimeout parameter is set to MAXDWORD, the
intention being for the read to return immediately after the first
byte(s) arrive.  But serial port drivers differ in their
interpretation of the serial port character-read timeout parameters.
When a serial port or modem uses the USB bus rather than the PCI bus,
this can result in a 500 second delay between reads unless the buffer
is filled.  This is fixed in the next release.

732. Backspace Key setting in Dialer -> Keyboard might be ignored

If you have a SET KEY \127 xxx command in your K95.INI, K95SITE.INI,
or K95CUSTOM.INI file, this overrides the Backspace Key setting in the
Dialer's Keyboard Settings page, even though the Dialer script is
executed AFTER the INI file.  Fixed in the next release.

733. SET PRINTER command in Dialer-generated scripts

One user reported that it takes a long time to make a connection from
the Dialer, and traced the problem to the SET PRINTER command that is
included in every Dialer connection script.  The SET PRINTER command
queries Windows for a list of printers, and in this case, the query
was taking a very long time.  The user deleted the default printer and
recreated it, and the problem went away.

734. Sessions Logs are always 8-bit

Session logs always record the 8th bit of each character, even when
PARITY is not NONE, and/or even when TERMINAL BYTESIZE is 7.  In these
cases the 8th bit should be stripped (unless SET SESSION-LOG DEBUG is
in effect).  To be fixed in a future release.  In the meantime you can
use:

  SET TERMINAL BYTESIZE 7
  SET PRINTER /FILE:name-for-log-file
  SET TERMINAL PRINT AUTO

to create a 7-bit session log.

735. Macros on Keys broken

In versions 1.1.21 through 2.1.3, when a SET [TERMINAL] KEY definition
includes a macro invocation, then pressing the key while in the
Terminal screen returns to the command screen (and in some cases might
also fail to execute the macro).  A workaround would be to:

  define myconnect connect /synchronous
  (make the connection with SET PORT, DIAL, or SET HOST)
  if success do myconnect

This is fixed in the next release.

736. FTP MGET might not fail when it should

When SET FTP ERROR-ACTION is QUIT and a file in an MGET sequence
fails, Kermit just goes on to the next file, rather than quitting and
failing.  This is fixed in the next release.

737. No way to totally disable WIKSD event logging

One message written to the event log prior to the processing of the
IKSD.KSC file; thus even if IKSD.KSD says "no logging", log records
will accumulate.  It is unclear at the current time when this will
occur.  There is also known to be a handle leak in IKSDSVC.EXE which
can result in system instability.  This is fixed in the next release.

738. OpenSSL Security holes in 0.9.7

Version 2.1.2 of Kermit 95 ships with OpenSSL 0.9.7 which contains
known security holes.  These holes have been fixed in subsequent
releases.  The current release is 0.9.7f.  The next release of Kermit
95 will contain these fixes.

739. Kerberos for Windows updates

Version 2.1.2 of Kermit 95 ships with an outdated version of MIT
Kerberos for Windows which does not support AES encryption and
contains interoperability problems with the Microsoft Windows Active
Directory implementation of Kerberos and MIT Kerberos 5 Release 1.3.x.
The next release of Kermit 95 will contain these improvements by
including MIT Kerberos for Windows Release 2.6.

Kermit itself has been improved to support new Microsoft Kerberos
functionality including new encryption types as well as use of the
Kerberos tickets stored in the Microsoft Logon Session Kerberos cache.

740. OpenSSH Security holes

Version 2.1.2 of Kermit 95 ships with OpenSSH 3.5 support containing
known security holes.  The OpenSSH support in the next release of Kermit
95 will be updated to OpenSSH 3.6.1 with extensions for SRP and GSSAPI
Kerberos.

741. SEND command in Kermit function causes crash

A SEND command embedded in a macro and executed as a function with
\Fexecute(macro) would cause K95 to crash.  This is fixed in the next
release.

742. Denial of Service attack against TCP/IP SET HOST * connections

Incoming TCP/IP connections did not provide for timeouts enabling a
remote attacker to perform a denial of service attack against K95
configured to accept incoming connections.  This is fixed in the next
release.

743. SSL/TLS Private Key Passphrase Dialog reveals passphrase

The passphrase dialog for private keys accessed during SSL/TLS
connection attempts does not obscure the passphrase input.  This is
fixed in the next release.

744. Pragma Systems Terminal Server Not Supported

Kermit 95 has supported being used as a Kermit protocol engine under
the Pragma Systems Telnet and SSH daemons but not the Terminal Server
product.  This is fixed in the next release.

745. Communication devices passed to Kermit as handles are closed on exit

Starting in the next release, if a communication device is passed to
Kermit 95 for use via an already existing HANDLE, the default for the
SET EXIT HANGUP command will be OFF.

746. SET TCP HTTP-PROXY cannot be used with HTTP connections

Support for using HTTP Proxy connections for HTTP connections has
been added to the next release.

747. UNC paths do not work during FTP operations

Support for using UNC paths with FTP operations has been added to the
next release.

748. Dialer QUICK Command improvements

The dialer QUICK command did not allow connections to be based on
existing template and could not be saved for later use.  The next
release supports the use of templates in the QUICK command and allows
the command to be used as a poor man's CLONE.

749. Linux Character Set handling bugs

There are bugs in the handling of the Linux Character Set.  These have
been fixed in the next release.

750. XMODEM-CRC checksums are not computed properly

The XMODEM-CRC checksum computations were not performed properly in
all instances.  This has been fixed in the next release.

751. BEEP when setting window title in a terminal session 

An inadvertant beep was produced when a SET TITLE control sequence was
received from the host.  This is fixed in the next release.

752. NEW FEATURE: SSH Debug Logging

The next release supports the ability to log debugging messages to the
debug.log file to assist in diagnosing connection problems.

753. Telnet AUTH vs Telnet START_TLS protocol negotiation conflicts

A protocol message sequencing error could occur when connecting to
some hosts which support both the AUTH and START_TLS Telnet protocol
options.  This is fixed in the next release.

754. NEW FEATURE: SSH Version 2 Protocol Automatic Rekeying

SET SSH V2 AUTO-REKEY {ON, OFF} has been added to the next release to
support automatic rekeying of long lasting ssh version 2 connections.

755. Extended command line options not properly processed

When using a mixture of Extended command line options the even
numbered options would be misinterpretted as multi-valued switches.
This would produce very odd and unexpected results.  This is fixed in
the next release

756. SSH URLs did not set the window title

When starting K95 from a command line with an SSH URL or via a browser
using an SSH URL, the title of the K95 window would not be properly
set to the host name.  This is fixed in the next release.

757. NEW FEATURE: SKERMIT command

The SKERMIT ssh subsystem functionality now has its own shortcut
command.  No longer is it necessary to enter

  SET NETWORK TYPE SSH 
  SET HOST host /SUBSYSTEM:SKERMIT

instead 

  SKERMIT host

is all that is required.  This is available in the next release.

758. Process handle leak in the IKSD Service

A process handle leak in the IKSD Service could cause Windows to be
unable to start subsequent processes and/or become very sluggish.
This is fixed in the next release.

759. NEW FEATURE: FTP SSLv2 connections

K95 follows the specification for FTP AUTH SSL and FTP AUTH TLS and
does not support the antiquated SSLv2 protocol on FTP connections.
Unfortunately, not everyone else follows the specification.  A new command

  SET FTP BUG USE_SSL_V2 {ON, OFF}

has been added to allow SSLv2 to be used with servers that won't
negotiate SSLv3 or TLSv1.  This is available in the next release.

760. NEW FEATURE: SSH Heartbeats to maintain connections through NAT/Firewalls

A new command 

  SET SSH HEARTBEAT-INTERVAL <seconds>

has been added to the next release to allow the SSH to be maintained
during long idle periods.  This is similar to the

  SET TERMINAL IDLE-ACTION TELNET-NOP 
  SET TERMINAL IDLE-TIMEOUT <seconds>

which can be used to preserve TELNET connections without actually
sending data to the host applications.

761. NEW FEATURE: ON_CD macro

A new auto-execute macro, ON_CD, can be defined in the next release.
This macro is executed whenever a change directory operation occurs
either due to a CD command or a Kermit protocol operation.

762. NEW FEATURE: FTP MLSD parsing of extended strings

763. SET ATTRIBUTES DATE OFF did not apply to XYZmodem file transfers

In the next release the SET ATTRIBUTES DATE OFF command can be used to
ignore the actual date information of the file and instead use the
current date/time information as the file is sent or received.

764. FTP ASCII transfers generated incorrect end of line when sending

FTP SEND file transfers of ASCII files to Unix or MacOSX hosts produce
the wrong end of line marker.  This has been fixed in the next
release.

765. Unable to specify the HTTP Agent for use in Proxy Operations

Firewalls often filter HTTP requests based upon the Agent tag in the
HTTP headers.  The Agent tag is supposed to indicate the requesting
application.  To allow Kermit to pretend to be Netscape, Mozilla or
Internet Explorer a new

  SET TCP HTTP-PROXY /AGENT:<agent-string>

option has been added.  This is available in the next release.

766. Windows Registry entries containing environment variables are not 
     processed correctly

Windows Registry entries containing environment variables should have
the environment variables expanded before use.  This is important for
roaming profiles and the locations of network available applications.
The next release of Kermit 95 will properly expand this registry
strings.

767. Reverse DNS Lookups cannot always be disabled

There are some circumstances in the SET HOST operation in which
reverse dns lookups are not always disabled by SET TCP
REVERSE-DNS-LOOKUP OFF.  This is fixed in the next release.

768. Directory operations fail on network mapped file systems which do
     not provide date information

Some networked mapped file systems do not provide attribute
information for directory entries.  This causes the Microsoft C
Runtime Library stat() command to fail.  The next version of Kermit 95
replaces all calls to C Runtime Library file routines with new
functionality implemented solely using the Win32 API.

769. IBM 3151 emulation is missing keymap assignments for some keys

The IBM 3151 emulation was missing kverbs for the Home and BackTab
keys.  The I31_F21 kverb would send the output of the F11 key.  These
have been fixed in the next release.

770. Dialer FTP entries did not preserve alternative port numbers

When the connection type is FTP, the port number is not entered into
the appropriate field when editing.  This means that editing an
existing entry which requires an alternate port will lose the
alternate port if the GENERAL page is edited and saved.  This is fixed
in the next release.

771. NEW FEATURE: Hyperlink Extensions for ANSI based terminals.

Hyperlink Extension for Terminals based on 
ANSI X3.64-1979/ISO-6429/ECMA-048 

The hyperlink extension utilizes the Device Control Sequence (DCS) to
implement both URL and UNC hyperlinks within the terminal session with
the equivalent of the HTML HREF tag:

    <a href="http:/host/path?parameters”>Click Here</a>

In an HREF tag, only the "Click Here" string is visible to the end
user. Clicking on any character in the string will result in the
execution of the URL. The DCS equivalent to the HREF tag is:

<DCS> Pn + m <link string> <ST>                                                

where: 

<DCS> is either the 8-bit DCS control or the 7-bit sequence                    
<ESC> P <ST> is either the 8-bit ST control or the 7-bit sequence              
<ESC> \ Pn is one of three parameters:                                         
0 – terminate the hyperlink attribute                                      
1 – activate a URL hyperlink attribute                                     
2 – activate a UNC hyperlink attribute                                     
<link string> is the link text which may optionally be surrounded              
in double quotes.                                                          

Here is an example of how this extension is used to specify a URL
hyperlink associated with a text string displayed to the end user:

<DCS>1+m"http://www.kermit-project.org"<ST>Kermit Home Page<DCS>0+m<ST>        

When this string is received by a supporting terminal emulator, at the
present only Kermit 95 2.2.0 or higher, a hyperlink character
attribute is defined. This character attribute behaves identically to
a Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) character attribute such as Bold,
Underline, or Reverse.  Terminal emulators which do not support this
extension would only display the contents of the display string. An
example of a UNC hyperlink follows:

<DCS>2+m"\\server\path\document.pdf"<ST>Acrobat Document<DCS>0+m<ST>           

The hyperlink attribute can be combined with SGR sequences to specify
display attributes for the hyperlink:

<DCS>1+m"http://www.cdaero.com"<ST><CSI>4mCD Aero Home <CSI>24m<DCS>0+m<ST>    

In the above sequence a URL hyperlink is specified in combination with
the Underline SGR sequence. The display text is therefore displayed
with an underline. When the display text is printed the underline and
URL hyperlink attributes are removed. This behavior could also have
been obtained with the sequence:

<DCS>1+m"http://www.cdaero.com"<ST><CSI>4mCD Aero Home<CSI>0m                  

This is because the SGR 0 sequence means to clear all character
display attributes. Only one hyperlink attribute may be specified at a
time. Therefore, sequences of the following form are also valid:

<DCS>1+m"http://www.cdaero.com/index.html"<ST>Web 
<DCS>2+m “\\server\public_html\index.html”<ST>UNC<DCS>0+m<ST> 

In this sequence the URL hyperlink is replaced by a UNC hyperlink and
then hyperlink attributes are disabled. Kermit 95 2.2.0 will display
with an associated hyperlink according to the values specified with
the command:

    SET TERMINAL URL-HIGHLIGHT ON <attribute list> 

Where <attribute list> is one or more of: BLINK, BOLD, DIM, INVISIBLE,
ITALIC, NORMAL, REVERSE, and UNDERLINED. The default is BOLD for the
console version and BOLD UNDERLINED for the gui version. This
extension is supported in the following terminal types: AIXTERM,
ANNARBOR, ANSI-BBS, AT386, AVATAR/0+, BETERM, HFT, LINUX, QANSI,
SCOANSI, SNI-97801, SUN, VT220, VT220PC, VT320, VT320PC, WY370.

772. ANSI DCS sequences containing an intermediary '$' character are 
     improperly handled

the processing of all sequences with intermediate character '$' fell
through to sequences with intermediate character '|'.  This could have
done very bad things to the values assigned to DEC UDKs.  This has
been fixed in the next release.

773. NEW FEATURE: 3DES Telnet support

Add SET TELNET BUG AUTH-KRB5-DES which defaults to ON.  When OFF, 3DES
encryption may be used with KRB5 Telnet authentication.  This is added
to the next release.

774. UNC paths in file transfer operations generate errors

This bug is fixed by the same code changes as number 768. 

775. SET TITLE <title-string> is not brace stripped

In the next release, braces or doublequotes may be safely placed
surrounding the title string.  They will be stripped off before the
window title is applied.

776. MOVE-TO and RENAME-TO functionality did not work with XYZmodem transfers

The MOVE-TO and RENAME-TO functions were never implemented for
XYZmodem.  This support has been added to the next release for both
SEND and RECEIVE operations.

777. SEND /MOVE-TO:<directory> fails when using Kermit protocol

The SEND /MOVE-TO: switch was broken.  It incorrectly overwrote the file
name with the directory name.  This caused a fatal error during the file
transfer.  This is fixed in the next release.

778. SET TERMINAL DEBUG ON command does not work.

The command does not work but the keyboard verb \KDebug which is mapped to
Alt-D does.  This is fixed in the next release.

779. The INFORMATION sound generates no audible output

The wrong system sound was being called for BEEP INFORMATION or events
which produce an informational tone.  This has been fixed in the next
release.

780. NEW FEATURE: DG4xx Set Cursor Type support

The DG4xx Set Cursor Type sequence <RS> F Q <type> is now implemented for
Data General terminals and many other DG4xx sequences are now parsed even
if we do nothing with them.  This prevents unwanted characters from
disrupting the display layout when 400 series commands are sent to 200
series terminals.

781. SET PRINTER command causes Kermit to crash

A SET PRINTER command on a machine without any Windows Printer queues
would attempt to allocate zero bytes of memory and cause the program to
crash.  This is fixed in the next release.

782. ANSI Backtab Control Sequence (CSI Z) does not function

The ANSI control sequence CSI Z is supposed to be equivalent to 
CSI 1 Z.  Unfortunately, it is interpreted since 1.1.21 as CSI 0 Z
which results in the Backtab functionality being disabled.  This is
fixed in the next release.

783. NEW FEATURE: GUI TYPE command

A new function /GUI option on the TYPE command allows the generated
output of the TYPE command to be displayed in a GUI text box

784. SCO SGR Set Fg/Bg sequence sets colors to black on black

The SCO sequence   CSI 2 ; <fg> ; <bg> m    sets the fg and bg
colors to black instead of the specified values.  This is fixed
in the next release.

785. SCO Set Function Key sequence if mis-used can corrupt the data stream

The SCO set function key sequence    ESC Q <fn> <quote> .... <quote> 
breaks the ANSI X3.64 parsing rules.  This can result in data being lost if
the sequence   ESC Q   is sent to the terminal without properly specifying
the <fn> and <quote> characters.  As of the next release, if <fn> is an 
invalid character the specified character will be pushed back onto the data
stream and reparsed in case the ESC Q was mistakenly used.  Under normal
circumstances ESC Q would be treated as the PU1 STRING sequence introducer.

786. IBM Info Exchange commands fail randomly with 
     SSL_R_MISSING_EXPORT_TMP_RSA_KEY error

This is a bug in the OpenSSL library used to provide SSL/TLS support
in Kermit 95.  This is fixed in the next release.

787. Dialer generates incomplete script when Transaction Logging is On

When transaction logging is turned on, the dialer generates an 
incomplete SET TRANSACTION-LOG command.  This either results in
a warning or a fatal script execution depending on the state of
SET TAKE ERROR.  This is fixed in the next release.

788. Named Pipe Network Connections are not supported on Windows

In the next release, Named Pipe connections (both client and
server side) have been added.  Client side named pipe connections
can be used in conjunction with VMWare to allow K95 to be used
either as a terminal connected to a serial tty (redirected to
a named pipe) or for use in logging syslog output on the host
system.

789. FTP FEAT response improperly parsed

The response to the FTP FEAT command is used to determine
which features the FTP server supports.  Kermit improperly
parsed this response resulting in the FTP client functionality
being improperly configured.  This is fixed in the next release.

790. SET FTP CHARACTER-SET-TRANSLATION ON displayed garbage

When SET FTP CHARACTER-SET-TRANSLATION ON is set, Kermit 95
would output FTP server responses to the screen in the wrong
byteorder.  This would result in output appearing to be unreadable.
This is fixed in the next release.

791. Dialer generates incorrect FTP Connection Scripts

The dialer generates FTP connection scripts which use the
FTP OPEN /USER /PASSWORD plus SET FTP AUTOLOGIN ON which is
not a safe script operation since the failure state of the 
FTP OPEN command does not indicate whether the login succeeded.
Instead, FTP USER and SET FTP AUTOLOGIN OFF should be used.
In addition, commands entered into the Login Script page textbox
were not included in the generated script.  These errors are
fixed in the next release.

792. Installer does not initialize TAPI

Kermit 95 requires that the Telephony API (TAPI) be configured
for the machine for all users of the machine.  The Telephony
subsystem is configured using the Phone and Modems Options
control panel.  If TAPI has not been configured, TAPI will
attempt to prompt the user for configuration data the first time
the subsystem is activated by an application.  If the user
account under which the application is started does not have the
necessary privileges to make changes to the local machine
configuration (they are not Administrator), the application which
uses TAPI will fail to start properly.  In the case of Kermit 95,
this means that while the Kermit 95 GUI Window (or console
window) may open properly, the application will be unusable for
about two minutes until the TAPI subsystem fails.  The fact that
the TAPI subsystem is left unconfigured after the Kermit 95
installation should be considered a bug in the Kermit 95
installer.  The installer really should query TAPI to force the
configuration of the machine.

793. Print Selection Doesn't Work

Ctrl-Shift-Drag events are not recognized by K95.  Therefore the
Select-and-Print operation that is assigned by default to Mouse Button 1
Ctrl-Shift-Drag is inoperative.  Fixed in the next release.  Workaround:
Drag the mouse over the desired text WITHOUT Shift and Ctrl pressed.  Then,
before releasing the mouse button, press the Ctrl and Shift keys.  Then
release the mouse button, then release the keys.

794. Dialer Database Corruption

The Dialer database can be damaged in various ways, mostly by bugs in the C++
Class libraries that were used to build the Dialer.  Many of these bugs have
been worked around in version 2.1.3, so if you are running an earlier
version, you should upgrade to 2.1.3:

  http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95upgrade.html

A significant re-write of the Class Libraries took place after 2.1.3 was
released to make them compatible with the latest Microsoft development
tools.  These changes are incorporated into the next K95 release.
Meanwhile, in 2.1.3 a corrupted entry in a .DAT file (if it cannot be
corrected automatically) will cause the user to notified of the problem,
specifying the entry that was damaged and indicating that the entry will be
deleted.  Meanwhile, Kermit 95 creates an automatic backup each time the
.DAT file is edited.  The backups are located in the same directory as the
.DAT file, which varies according to your OS version and installation
choices; see the K95 README file for details:

  http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95readme.html

and have filenames ending in .BK1, .BK2, .BK3, etc.  To restore from a
backup, move or rename your corrupted DIALUSR.DAT for possible future
analysis, and copy the latest backup to DIALUSR.DAT.  If that one is corrupt
too, repeat the process going back through the previous backup copies.

794. CVTDATE function cannot process deltas with negative months

The CVTDATE function cannot process a delta with negative months.
For example, 

  echo \fcvtdate(20050121 - 2 month)

produces an incorrect year.  This is fixed in the next release.

795.  Printer output includes question marks instead of non-ASCII
      characters such as line drawing characters.

There is a bug in the SET PRINTER /CHARACTER-SET: processing which
will always cause the printer character set to be assigned the value
of "Danish ASCII".  This bug will cause all non-ASCII characters to
be printed as question marks.  The only work around is to not issue
a /CHARACTER-SET command which will leave the value at the default
which happens to be Code Page 437.  Unfortunately, the dialer always
issues a /CHARACTER-SET command and there is no work around for that.
This is fixed in the next release.

796.  Titles set with --title are cleared after a connection is
      established

The behavior of --title should be the same as "SET TITLE".  The 
work around is to use the form -C "set title text".  This is fixed
in the next release.

797.  Dialer generated scripts include SET LOGIN PROMPT and SET
      LOGIN PASSWORD commands when fields are empty

Dialer generated connection scripts include SET LOGIN PROMPT and
SET LOGIN PASSWORD commands when the fields are empty.  This can
break the use of the standard login.ksc script.  There is no 
work around.  This is fixed in the next release.

798.  NEW FEATURE: --noclose command line option

This new feature for the GUI version allows the [x] button and
File->Exit menu item to be disabled.  This has been added to 
the next release.

799.  Writing to VTxxx Status Line corrupted when display cursor
      on right margin

If the VTxxx writable status line is in use, if the display cursor
is located at the right margin, text written to the Status line will
be inappropriately line wrapped.  There is no work around.  This
is fixed in the next release.

800.  In key mappings, the form \K{verb} is ignored

When assigning key mappings, it is often necessary to surround 
the verb name in braces to avoid parsing collisions.  For example,

   SET KEY key \40\Kverb\41

is mapped to the key as

   (\Kverb)

which will be output to the host as "(" because "verb)" is not a
valid verb name.  There are two work arounds.  You can map the
key definition as either:

    \\40\Kverb\\41
    \40\{Kverb}\41

This is fixed in the next release.  
 
801. SET TERMINAL IDLE-ACTION OUTPUT does not send NUL

Bug, fixed in the next release.

802. Date-time differencing across years broken.

Bug, fixed in the next release.

803. No way to HTTP GET a file that has metacharacters in its name.

Fixed in the next release.

804. Some string-matching patterns don't work

Patterns containing * followed by an [abc] or [a-z] selection construction
could fail under some conditions.  Certain other patterns could cause Kermit
to go into a infinite loop.  Fixed in the next release.

805. IF with disconnected multistatement ELSE part broken

IF-ELSE statements of the form:

  IF condition {
     statement
     statement
     ...
  }
  ELSE {
     statement
     statement
     ...
  }

do not work.  Workaround: put the ELSE after the closing bracket of the IF
group: "} ELSE {".  Fixed in the next release.

806. REMOTE DIRECTORY response lines terminated only by LF

These lines should be terminated by CRLF.  Fixed in the next release.

807. DNS SRV records don't work with SSH

Bug: The SRV lookup only occurs if you explicitly specify a service name.
If you enter your connection as "ssh hostname ssh" it will work.

808. K95 spuriously seizes focus

If Kermit 95 is started in such a way that its window would be wider or
taller than the physical screen size at the configured resolution, Windows
will pop the K95 window into focus because it "needs attention".  This can
happen if K95 is in the background, or indeed, even when it is in the
foreground but displaying a dialog box (e.g. for the SSH password).  A quick
workaround is to maximize the K95 window, which forces K95 to adjust the
font size to the screen size and resolution.  The real solution is to set
the monitor to a higher resolution (if possible), or else to use a smaller
font size and/or smaller screen dimensions (rows and/or columns).

809. S-Expression division broken in K95

An S-Expression like (/ a b) causes a fatal error if the magnitude of b
is less than one.  This bug was fixed in C-Kermit shortly after K95 2.1.3
was released.  The fix will be in the next release of K95.  Workaround:
replace (/ a b) with \ffpdiv(a,b).

810. GSSAPI authentication doesn't work for SSH

GSSAPI changed after K95 2.1.3 was released; there is presently no way
to authenticate with K95 2.1.3 against modern versions of GSSAPI.
To be fixed in a future release.

811. KCD DOWNLOAD command doesn't work in Windows Vista and Windows 7

Apparently the Windows API for finding the user's Download directory
changed since Windows XP.  Workaround: SET FILE DOWNLOAD-DIRECTORY
will populate the \v(download) variable and allow KCD DOWNLOAD to work.

812. Autodownload GUI Dialog needs more buttons

The default TERMINAL AUTODOWNLOAD setting for K95 is ASK, which causes a
dialog to pop up for each file, giving you the opportunity to say OK or No
to accept or refuse the file.  This is not good when downloading a large
group of files.  There should also be buttons for "Yes to all", "No to all".
There should also be a note in the box to the effect that these dialogs
could be suppressed, if desired, by adding SET TERMINAL AUTODOWNLOAD ON to
K95CUSTOM.INI or in the Actions->Autodownload menu (change the setting
from Ask to On).

813. Kermit 95 and large files

Experimentation has shown that, although K95 is not supposed to be capable
of transferring large files (longer than about 2GB), it can indeed send and
receive them successfully.  However the file transfer display is wrong --
the numbers, the progress bar, the percent done, since K95 2.1.3 does not
support long integers (well, it does, but in the Windows C compiler with
which K95 was built, sizeof(long) == sizeof(int) == 4).  Similarly any
post-transfer statistics and transaction logging will also have nonsensical
numbers.

814. Using K95 as a terminal emulator to Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5

K95's default terminal emulation is vt320, which is well understood by
RHEL5.  However, by default (or perhaps always) certain RHEL applications
write to the terminal in Unicode UTF-8, such as gcc 4.1.2, which outputs
filenames in warning messages in "smart quotes" that are encoded in UTF-8.
K95 supports UTF-8, but not as its default terminal character set, so when
the first error or warning message comes out, the screen goes blank, because
the multibyte Unicode character happens to be the same as a VT320 8-bit
escape sequence.  This is not a bug, just a surprise.  Simply choose "utf8"
in the character set box on the toolbar, or "set terminal character-set
utf8".

815. Incoming Ctrl-Z (SUB) character not properly displayed in VT emulation

The Ctrl-Z character, SUB, ASCII 26 (decimal) is supposed to be displayed
as a reverse question mark in VT320 emulation but it is not displayed at
all.  Reportedly this causes major discomfort when using the VMS TPU editor.
There doesn't seem to be a workaround for this.

816. 80/132 column switching and Resize Mode

Clarification: At present, the command 

  SET GUI WINDOW RESIZE-MODE { SCALE-FONT, CHANGE-DIMENSION }

applies only when changing the window size by dragging an edge or corner
with the mouse.  It does not affect (for example) host-directed switching
between 80 and 132 columns in VT100/200/300 emulation.

817. Columns can be lost if K95G window wider than physical screen

In the GUI version of K95 (K95G.EXE), if the combination of font size and
number of columns produces a window that would be wider than the physical
screen, the columns that would extend beyond the right edge of the physical
screen are lost.  There is no horizontal scrolling feature to access them.
To avoid this effect, you must use a font-size/terminal-width combination
that fits on the physical screen.  Another workaround is also possible:

 . Create an 80-column K95G window with the desired font and point size.
 . Use the mouse to make the font narrower by dragging the right edge
   of the window leftwards.
 . Give a SET TERMINAL WIDTH command to change to the desired number
   of columns.

Note: the Console version does support a form of horizontal scrolling,
as described here:

  http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/scroll.html

818. Ghost tool tips

I don't know if this is a bug in Kermit 95 or in Windows, but in Vista and
probably also Windows 7, when you bring K95 to the front by clicking in its
main screen, a ghost tool tip from the previous application is floating on
the Kermit screen.  It can be removed by clicking on it or by moving the
mouse off the screen and back on.  (Later I found that the same thing
happens between two other applications with K95 not involved; it's annoying,
but it's not Kermit.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(End of newbugs.txt)
