A modest proposal for reducing mail traffic
19961213
D. J. Bernstein, djb@pobox.com

It is depressing for those who travel through the world, from the
heights of the Jungfraujoch to the depths of the Dead Sea, from the
busy streets of New York through the old villages of Europe to the
untamed jungles of Africa, to see that so many people must pay by the
byte to surf the Internet. Parents who fetch a few files through FTP, a
mere 50 or 100 terabytes of information, find that they can no longer
afford to send their children, Dave and Virginia, to college. Dave and
Virginia, unable to obtain honest work, are forced into lives of drug
dealing and prostitution, at first sucking the blood of society and
later taking up precious prison space that should be dedicated to
international arms traffickers and other violent criminals.

Surely, therefore, the reader will agree that every byte is sacred; that
bandwidth must not be wasted. I therefore propose a few modest changes
in how mail messages are transferred through the Internet.

The fields "Received: ", "From: ", "Message-ID: ", "Subject: ", and
"To: " may be abbreviated "R:", "F:", "M:", "S:", and "T:" respectively.
A message has, on average, more than one Received field and nearly one
of each of the other fields. Savings: over 31 bytes per message.

Dates, normally written in the form "Thu, 25 May 1995 22:36:22 +0000",
may easily be packed into ten symbols such as "801441382Z" measured in a
standard epoch. A message has, on average, more than two dates. Savings:
over 42 bytes per message.

Received lines may omit the string "with SMTP " and repeated host names
in comments. The strings "from", "by", "id", and "for" may be
abbreviated "f", "b", "i", and "t"; bracketed IP addresses in comments
may be squished down to 6 base64-encoded bytes; version numbers in
comments may be easily encoded in three bytes by a common translation
table. Savings: over 48 bytes per message.

In SMTP, all greeting-line text past the host name and "ESMTP", and the
similar text in response to HELO or EHLO, may be deleted. Successful
responses to MAIL, RCPT, and QUIT may also be truncated, as they carry
no useful information. Savings: over 301 bytes per message.

The SMTP commands "HELO", "EHLO", "MAIL FROM:<", "RCPT TO:<", and "QUIT"
may be abbreviated "H", "E", "M ", "R ", and "Q" respectively. Savings:
22 bytes per message.

ESMTP announcements in EHLO responses may be packed onto one line, such
as "+EV8DT". Savings: over 36 bytes per message.

8 bytes of a 7-bit message may be encoded straightforwardly into 7 8-bit
bytes, saving 328 bytes of an average-sized message. Note that this does
not apply to 8-bit messages, and it loses some of the 121 bytes
previously gained in the message header. Savings: over 307 bytes per
message, not counting headers of packets saved.

This modest proposal adds up to a whopping 787 bytes per message---
approximately 1/4 of all SMTP traffic. Of course, more sophisticated
compression techniques are available, but I fear that they would scare
away most implementors.

There are a few who may object to my proposal, saying that mail traffic
is under 5% of Internet traffic, and that any savings in mail traffic
will be wiped out in a matter of days by growth in Web use. In response
I implore them to remember Dave and Virginia, preying on the drug
addicts of the next generation and the sexually dissatisfied men of the
previous generation. How different their careers could have been if
their parents had not downloaded so many terabytes of data! We must not
abandon our children to such a fate.
