aedictxp, AEnglishDictionaryXP, AEDict.exe, Александър Камбуров, BFoffice, SLOVNIK structure, SLOVNIK - new dictionaries to add to SLOVNIK

Да, базата на SA Dictionary е от речниците на „Наука и техника“ от началото на 1990-те. А знаете ли, че подредбата на речниковата база също е предмет на авторска собственост, да, думите не са, но подредбата е. А по дефиниция, речник е книга, в която по определен критерии (азбучен ред) са подредени думи. Т.е. става обект на авторска собственост. Сега се замислете, дали е правилно да представяш и ПРОДАВАШ чужд труд, като го представяш за свои. Опа, май пак попаднахме в ЗАПСП... както и да е... ползвайте AEnglish Dictionary XP, няма смисъл да давате 70, 80 или на каквото да искате да си закръгляте числото пари. Дайте парите на някой нуждаещ се, или се вижте с приятел, купете нещо на любимата или бъдете егоисти и си направете подарък за себе си.

http://sa.dir.bg/genuine/

======

eurodict.com = dictionary database sources:

This version contains a Bulgarian-German database of 120 000 words in distinctive articles and expressions from the well-known on the book market dictionary of Lyudmila Ivanova (first edition 2001, GABEROFF) and Bulgarian-German database of 40 000 words in distinctive articles and expressions by Neli Peycheva (first edition, 2002, GABEROFF).

EuroDict XP PRO Dictionary of Bulgarian language

A Dictionary of Bulgarian Language contains database of 60000 words in distinctive articles and expressions (by: Stoian Burov, Walentina Bonjolova, Maria Ilieva, Penka Pehlivanova).

EuroDict XP PRO Italian-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-Italian dictionary

The present version contains Italian-Bulgarian resources comprising 40 000 words in entries and phrases taken from the best-selling dictionary compiled by Sava Slavchev (first edition, revised and reset, dated 2002 by GABEROFF ) and Bulgarian-Italian resources comprising 40 000 words in entries and phrases by Sava Slavchev and Neda Boydjieva, (first GABEROFF edition, dated 2002).

EuroDict XP PRO Greek-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-Greek dictionary

The present version contains Greek-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-Greek resources comprising 60 000 words in entries and phrases taken from the best-selling dictionary compiled by Nadejda Masleva (first edition, dated 2004 by GABEROFF ).

EuroDict XP PRO Spanish-Bulgarian/Bulgarian-Spanish dictionary

The present version contains Spanish-Bulgarian resources comprising 120 000 words in entries and phrases taken from the best-selling dictionary compiled by Snezhina Stefanova (second edition, revised and reset, dated 2001 by GABEROFF ) and Bulgarian-Spanish resources comprising 50 000 words in entries and phrases by Snezhina Stefanova, (first GABEROFF edition, dated 2001).

EuroDict XP PRO English-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-English dictionary

This version contains English-Bulgarian  database of 240 000  words in distinctive articles and expressions from the well-known on the book market dictionary and Bulgarian-English database of 120 000 words in distinctive articles and expressions.

EuroDict XP PRO French-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-French dictionary

The present version contains French-Bulgarian resources comprising 130 000 words in entries and phrases taken from the best-selling dictionary compiled by Andrei Iliev and Mikrula Konstantinova(fourth edition, revised and reset, dated 2001 by GABEROFF ) and Bulgarian-French resources comprising 100 000 words in entries and phrases by Nejlia Ismail, Mikrula Konstantinova and Miroslava Gaberova, (second GABEROFF edition, dated 2001).

EuroDict XP PRO Turkish-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-Turkish Dictionary

Turkish-Bulgarian and Bulgarian-Turkish dictionary contains database of 40000 words in distinctive articles and expressions (by: Liliana Dimitrova).